		How to write code for SailAway

* Portability

The general rule for portability is that the physical model must be
runnable in any version of Java.  We try to avoid deprecated features
within all the runtime versions of Java in all sections of the application. 
We also try to avoid features from any Java environment that appear to be
a kludge that will be altered in later releases.  The current GUI and event 
model are not meant to be compatible with any version of Java earlier than
version 1.2.  Since a variety of GUI's and event models may be written, no
portability constraints will be maintained for them.

* Coding standards in general

Readability is the primary concern regarding coding standards in SailAway.
If individual developers wish to use their own styles, there should be no
problem as long as others can read the code.

Our team does try to hold to the notion that each source file should 
contain only one class definition.  We recognize the usefullness of 
internal classes, but we do shy away from them.

Learn to love Javadoc.  Write good javadoc comments and save us all the 
trouble of having to write technical resource documentation by hand after
the fact.

Learn to love Ant.  We shall be moving the build process away from Make
and psuedo-make batch files and using Ant in its basic form.  Ant is java
based, so our build process can be maintained as a single set of files
that work across all platforms.  If you don't have Jakarta-Ant yet, get it.

* Writing code (strategy)

Only some kinds of changes are suitable for inclusion in the 'official'
version of SailAway.  

Bugfixes, where the application's behavior contradicts the documentation 
and/or expectations that everyone agrees upon, is OK. 

If your code section is for a feature approved for inclusion by the 
application planners, committing the code is also OK.

If your design is not yet clear (which is true of most features), then
the design is likely to benefit from more work and community input.
Write documentation including rationales for how one would use the feature.  
Think in terms of Use cases.  Discuss it with the SailAway development
team, researchers, or a mailing list to see what other people think.

If your code section is for a feature not on the approved list yet,
get the application planners involved in your discussions.  Follow
the same plan you would if your design were not yet clear.

The intention of all this is to arrive at some kind of rough community 
consensus before changing the "official" SailAway. It is likely that 
experimental packages will be distributed as a way to break in new features
in any section. 

* Writing code (tactics)

When you first distribute a patch it may be suitable to just put forth
a rough patch, or even just an idea.  But before the end of the
process the following should exist:

  - ChangeLog entry

  - Somewhere, a description of what the patch fixes (often in
    comments in the code, or maybe the ChangeLog or documentation or
    all of the above)

  - Most of the time, a test case (see TESTS).  If your code fixes a bug, 
    it can be quite frustrating to fix it only to see it reappear later
    Adding a test case to the testsuite, where feasible, solves this and other
    problems.

If you solve several unrelated problems, it is generally easier to
consider the desirability of the changes if there is a separate patch
for each bug/issue.  Use context diffs or unidiffs for a bug fix/patch.

Include words like "I grant permission to distribute this patch under
the terms of the GNU Public License" with your patch.  By sending a
patch to the SailAway team, you implicitly grant this permission, but we
would prefer it to be spelled out for clarity.

* What is the schedule for the next release?

There isn't one.  That is, upcoming releases are not announced (or
even hinted at, really) until the feature freeze which is
approximately 2 weeks before the final release (at this time test
releases start appearing and are announced).  This is
intentional, to avoid a last minute rush to get new features in.

* Mailing lists

We intend to have mailing lists supporting the following aspects of
the project.

    sailaway-plan		Application Planners
    sailaway-develop		Application Developers
    sailaway-bugs		Bug reports and comments
    sailaway-info		General Information

Each of these can be found on our SourceForge site.  Subscribe
instructions are there too. 

    sailaway-commit		Commit notices

This mailing list is not present yet.  It will be an automated
list sending commit messages from the developers to those wishing
to know about the activity.
